
Makeup is such a deep-rooted beauty concept. From the times of emperors and kings to the democratic world
of today, makeup has been omnipresent. From being a thing only for women, to now a gender-neutral concept,
makeup has given so many the confidence and the power to express themselves, in any and every way.
There is one way to do it, no set path to follow, and no rules to obey. Makeup has no inhibitions, which is
why there are different types of makeup out there. For you, for me, for everyone. So, if you’re a newbie in
the makeup world or just a fanatic who wants to dig deep and know more about the types of makeup, then
consider this you’re A-Z guide,  and get ready to plunge into this world of blushers, highlighters, and
contours!

Types of Makeup:

1.Nude Makeup -
While a bold rep lip and a strong highlight remain cult favourites, you might not be a stranger to the nude
makeup look. From IG models to celebs, the nude makeup or the no-makeup makeup look is all over the internet
today wherein the focus is to have a look that is as close to your natural skin as possible. It’s your skin,
only better. The idea is to use sheer cover products, and make the skin look like it is glowing from within.
To create one for yourself, use a hydrating serum, preferably a hyaluronic acid serum, that gives the skin kick
of moisture! Then go with a lightweight moisturizer and primer, and opt for a dewy foundation or a BB cream.
Lastly, take the minimalist road for the eye makeup and blush, and sport a lip gloss. There you have it,
nude makeup look, that is perfect for everyday wear, as well as special events!

2. HD Makeup -
HD makeup is like wearing an Instagram filter in real life, where you have no dark circles, no large pores,
no uneven tone, and only flawless skin. Although this makeup is full-coverage and bounces light, it is
feather-light and does not look overdone. Most importantly, you do not see the makeup settling into creases
and fine lines. How? HD foundations and powders have special pigments that blur the light when it reflects.
This gives the face a gorgeous sheen that reflects light the way the natural skin does. Among the many types
of makeup, this one especially is worn by TV actors. Thanks to the advent of HD TV screens, which suddenly had
the capacity to show every little flaw on the skin, HD makeup was birthed! It could hide the makeup look, as
well as blur those skin imperfections that were clearly seen on camera. A lot of brides today also opt for HD
makeup, because that wedding video has to be perfect, right!

3. Matte Makeup -
A messiah for those with oily skin, or for people who live in humid weather, let us introduce matte makeup to
you. A type of makeup that gives the runway models their natural-looking, porcelain finish, you can bet that
matte makeup is a makeup artists’ best-kept secret. It is perfect for those who are desperately looking for a
shine-free makeup look. So, if you’re looking out for makeup that stays put, does not budge, and gives a
seamless finish, then you have got to try matte makeup! Here’s how you can create it – make sure all your
products are matte. From the primer and foundation, to the setting powder and blush. This little switch is
going to give a look that you will mattely fall in love with!

4. Dewy Makeup -
Where there is matte on one end, there is dewy makeup on the other. If you love the forever glow on Alia Bhatt
or Jennifer Lopez, then my friend, you’ll love the dewy makeup look. Destined to make you look youthful and
fresh, this makeup has been a go-to for many celebs. It lies in the sweet spot between full-face makeup and a
no-makeup makeup look. It is dreamy and appalling and can be created easily at home. All you need is an
illuminating foundation. Don’t have one? Mix a strobe cream or your highlighter with your foundation, easy!
Then apply a creamy concealer, and use a natural-tone liquid highlighter on the high points of your face. Go
with a nude eyeshadow, and fill in your brows. As for the lips, keep it simple with a gloss, and seal everything
with a dewy finish setting spray. Now take a good look in the mirror,you’ve aced the dewy makeup look, sis.

5. Airbrush Makeup -
Time for the typical makeup applicators – your fingers, beauty blenders, sponges, and brushes, to leave the
stage and make way for makeup 2.0. Airbrushing is an all-new way to apply your makeup, and the results are
totally out of the world. So many celebs as well as brides-to-be rely on airbrushing to get that flawless and
fabulous finish. As the name suggests, this method employs a small pen-like applicator that airbrushes
foundation as well as blushers gently across your face. It is lightweight, long-lasting, and offers a much
smoother finish as compared to the other types of makeup. The only probable setback? Not finding your true
foundation match. It’s better to take the old route and stick to other forms of makeup if you do not find your
true shade match for the airbrush technique. Because applying the wrong shade of foundation, is like hiding an
elephant in a mouse hole!

6. Editorial Makeup -
From newspapers to magazines, to flyers, to hoardings, the makeup looks that you see in print and media is
editorial makeup. A prime example would be the worldwide hit TV show, Euphoria. Here, the makeup is a major
part of the story and the emotions of the characters. They run parallel to the concept and the storyline,
conveying a deeper meaning. Editorial makeup is typically flawless, you’ll not see one strand of hair out of
place. These makeup looks also take a lot of creative liberty, and are often OTT, certainly not something that
you’ll wear to a brunch. With the amount of hard work that goes into creating every single look, be it from
hairstylists, fashion designers, and makeup artists, you won’t simply turn the page without a long, hard gaze
at an editorial makeup model. Consider editorial makeup to be more of a concept than a mere makeup look, where
each look is perfect and unique in its own way.

7. Celebrity Makeup -
Be it Deepika Padukone sporting her eye-conic thick black kohl look, to Katrina Kaif in her peachy makeup,
celebs have always left us star-struck with their signature looks. Every celeb outfit needs a different makeup
look, a fresh approach, and some magic! These makeup looks are bound to slay and make us want to cop them. Be
it for movies or public appearances, celebs leave no stone unturned when it comes to playing with their makeup.
Currently, Deepika Padukone’s no-makeup makeup-look, and Alia Bhatt’s striking red bindi makeup look is going
viral, with beauty enthusiasts trying to decode and replicate them. All kudos to makeup artists, who are the
real heroes behind these wonders, leaving us with one-after-the-other memorable makeup looks.

8. Permanent Makeup -
How would you feel if you can post a real-time “I woke up like this” picture? Without all the backstory of
applying a lipper, correcting your brows, and applying a little blush for duplicating the morning glow.
Permanent makeup, like the name implies, gives you perfectly done eyes, lips, and a lot more, that stays on,
really long. Chances are, you’ve heard of microblading, thanks to the booming interest in brows over the past
few years. Although, that is the beginning. Today, you can get semi-permanent makeup tattoos. First up, is lip
blushing, where you’ll get a subtle wash of sheer colour across the entire lip. It is subtle, maybe a shade or
two darker than your natural lip colour.
Cannot leave the house without applying eyeliner? Well,now you can! Thanks to the lash-enhancing and eyeliner
tattoos. The lash enhancing tattoo is for people who do not wear makeup but want well-groomed, fuller-looking
lashes. The eyeliner tattoo can be shaped as per your liking – make it wing, keep it bold, or opt for a minimal
look! Transform your lashes into a work of art, and they will be good to go for at least 12 to 18 months.

Remember the time when freckles were considered un-cool? Yeah, us neither. From henna stains to eyeliner dibs,
people have gone above and beyond to replicate freckles. As the inclination towards natural looks and makeup
is rising by the day, it is only obvious that people will want to sport freckles as a beauty mark. Recently,
we witnessed Alia Bhatt rock the freckle look as well! But the simplest and semi-permanent solution to this is
to get freckle tattoos. They look strikingly the same as the natural ones!




